The ocean tide model available at this site, called GOT4.7, is
the latest solution in a series beginning with the work described in:

E J O Schrama and R Ray, Journal of Geophysical Research, v.99, p 24799, 1994.

and

R Ray, A global ocean tide model from Topex/Poseidon altimetry: GOT99.2,
   NASA Tech Memo 209478, 58 pages, Sept. 1999.


Three sets of ascii tide grids are provided.  One set is for the ocean 
tide only, another for the ocean+load tide, and third for the load tide.
The ocean+load should be used for computing corrections to altimetry.  
The "ocean tide" should be consistent with what a conventional tide gauge 
measures.  The load tide is defined everywhere, including on land.

There are two different software modules in this directory.  One called
PERTH3 is a subroutine to do tidal prediction given a lat/lon/time.
The other is GRIDIO which can be used to read the ascii grids.  If you
only require prediction, then you need not worry about GRIDIO.

The prediction software PERTH3 runs on any of the provided sets of tidal
grids, depending on what kind of tide the user wants to calculate.
It returns predictions in the same units as in the amplitude grids
(generally cm, but the load tides are usually mm).
The prediction software includes 16 minor tides by inference.  These
16 tides are:  2Q1, sigma1, rho1, M1, chi1, pi1, phi1, theta1, J1, OO1, 
2N2, mu2, nu2, lambda2, L2, T2.

PERTH3 is an updated version of PERTH2, which allows inclusion of
the S1 constituent and (optionally) the M4 constituent.
Note that when running PERTH3, it expects the 9 (or 10) main tide grids to be
concatenated into one file.  So before running PERTH3, do
         cat q1.d o1.d p1.d s1.d k1.d n2.d m2.d s2.d k2.d > fort.30
or the equivalent for your operating system.  If you don't understand the
time system used by PERTH3 (modified julian date), then contact me; I have
conversion subroutines.

If you're interested in reading the actual tidal grids for some
particular reason, then use GRIDIO to read them. In any dataset, e.g. 
m2.d, the amplitude and phase grids are concatenated, so reading both 
requires simply two calls to the reader subroutine gridin.
  
A small routine written several years ago by D Cartwright is also provided
for predicting equilibrium long-period tides.

It should go without saying that these satellite-based data were
developed primarily for use in space geodesy.  They must NOT be used
in coastal (or other) applications risking life or property, and they
should never be used for coastal navigation purposes.

R D Ray, Goddard Space Flight Center                       6 Aug 2007
richard.ray@nasa.gov
